Story 1 of Peter Rabbit and other's tales by Beatrix Potter. This is a LibriVox recording,
all LibriVox recordings are in the public domain. For more information or to volunteer,
please visit LibriVox.org. Peter Rabbit and other tales by Beatrix Potter. The tale of Peter
Rabbit. Once upon a time, there were four little rabbits, and their names were flopsie,
mopsie, cotton tail, and Peter. They lived with their mother in a sandbank, underneath
the root of a very big fur tree. "Now my dears," said old Mrs. Rabbit one morning.
"You may go into the fields or down the lane, but don't go into Mr. McGregor's garden. Your father
had an accident there. He was put in a pie by Mrs. McGregor." "Now run along and don't get into
mischief. I am going out." An old Mrs. Rabbit took a basket and her umbrella, and went through the
wood to the bakers. She bought a loaf of brown bread and five current buns. Flopsie,
mopsie, and cotton tail, who were good little bunnies, went down the lane to gather blackberries.
But Peter, who was very naughty, ran straight away to Mr. McGregor's garden and squeezed under
the gate. First he ate some lettuces and some French beans, and then he ate some radishes.
And then, feeling rather sick, he went to look for some parsley.
But round the end of a cucumber frame, whom should he meet but Mr. McGregor?
Mr. McGregor was on his hands and knees, planting out young cabbages, but he jumped up and ran
after Peter, waving a rake and calling out, "Stop, thief!" Peter was most dreadfully frightened.
He rushed all over the garden for he had forgotten the way back to the gate. He lost one of his
shoes among the cabbages, and the other shoe amongst the potatoes. After losing them he ran on
four legs and went faster, so that I think he might have got away altogether if he had not
unfortunately run into a goose-brenette, and got caught by the large buttons on his jacket.
It was a blue jacket with brass buttons, quite new. Peter gave himself up the lost and shed
big tears, but his solves were overheard by some friendly sparrows, who flew to him in great
excitement, and implored him to exert himself. Mr. McGregor came up with a sieve, which he intended
to pop upon the top of Peter, but Peter wriggled out just in time, leaving his jacket behind him,
and rushed into the tall shed and jumped into a can. It would have been a beautiful thing to hide
in if it had not had so much water in it. Mr. McGregor was quite sure that Peter was somewhere
in the tall shed, perhaps he ended underneath a flower pot. He began to turn them over carefully,
looking under each. Presently Peter sneezed, "Cut your shoe!" Mr. McGregor was after him in no time,
and tried to put his foot upon Peter, who jumped out of a window, upsetting three plants.
The window was too small for Mr. McGregor, and he was tired of running after Peter. He went back to
his work. Peter sat down to rest. He was out of breath and trembling with fright, and he had not
the least idea which way to go. Also, he was very damp with sitting in that can. After a time he
began to wander about, going lupity, lupity, not very fast, and looking all round. He found a door
in a wall, but it was locked, and there was no room for a fashionable rabbit to squeeze underneath.
An old mouse was running in and out over the stone doorstep, carrying peas and beans to
her family in the wood. Peter asked her the way to the gate, but she had such a large
pea in her mouth that she could not answer. She only shook her head at him. Peter began to cry.
Then he tried to find his way straight across the garden, but he became more and more puzzled.
Presently he came to a pond when Mr. McGregor filled his watercans. A white cat was staring at some
goldfish. She sat very, very still, but now and then the tip of her tail twitched as if it were alive.
Peter thought it best to go away without speaking to her. He had heard about cats from his
cousin, little Benjamin Bunny. He went back towards the tall shed, but suddenly quite close to
him, he heard the noise of a hoe, scratch, scratch, scratch, scratch. Peter scouted underneath
the bushes. But presently, as nothing happened, he came out, and climbed upon a wheelbarrow
and peeped over. The first thing he saw was Mr. McGregor hoeing onions. His back was turned towards
Peter, and beyond him was the gate. Peter got down very quietly off the wheelbarrow and started
running as fast as he could go along a straight walk behind some black current bushes.
Mr. McGregor caught sight of him at the corner, but Peter did not care. He slipped underneath the
gate and was safe at last in the wood outside the garden. Mr. McGregor hung up the little jacket
and the shoes for a scarecrow to frighten the blackbirds. Peter never stopped running or looked
behind him till he got home to the big fur tree. He was so tired that he flopped down of on the
nice soft sand on the floor of the rabbit hole and shut his eyes. His mother was busy cooking.
She wondered what he had done with his clothes. It was the second little jacket and pair of shoes
that Peter had lost in a fortnight. I am sorry to say that Peter was not very well during the
evening. His mother put him to bed and made some camera mild tea, and she gave a dose of it to
Peter. One table spoonful to be taken at bedtime. But flopsie, mopsie and cotton tail had red and
milk in blackberries for supper. End of the tail of Peter Rabbit, recording by Julian Bradley.